Is anyone else tired of living through
unprecedented times and could use at
least a few weeks of precedented times?
Well, if so, then you probably aren't
alone. I know I feel that way and I see
so many other people online echoing the
same thing. But all jokes aside, over
the last 5 years, there have been a
seemingly endless stream of breaking
news, major world events, catastrophic
disasters, so many things that have gone
wrong. And I'm not here to be like a
doomsday person or just talk about the
negatives, but I hear from people all
the time, "Hey, how do you handle this?"
How do you go about it as a business
owner who's posting on social media, who
many of us have a pretty significant
influence, even just a thousand
followers is a significant influence?
How do you go about it? How do you
handle it? How do you address it? Do you
address it? Today, in this episode, I'm
going to be very transparent and I'm
going to admit that as we go into this
episode, I'm likely going to make some
mistakes and a few years from now, I
might look back on this episode and
disagree with some of these things, but
I wanted to share with you my opinions.
Not about recent political events or
recent world catastrophes and recent
world breaking news, but my opinions
about how to handle these things on
social media as someone with an
influence. You might not consider
yourself an influencer, but as someone
who's posting regularly on social media,
as someone with more than one follower,
you have an influence. So today, I'm
going to talk to you about some things
that I personally consider and how I
choose to address and handle or not
address certain things that are
happening in the world when it pertains
to my own business and social media.
And I want to start by saying that I'm a
believer that there isn't necessarily a
right and a wrong way to go about
things. We all are different people with
different backgrounds, with different
businesses, with different audiences and
different seasons of our life, with
different amounts of followers, right?
And so, the way that you handle
something might be different than
someone else. And I don't want you to
feel pressure or shame or guilt for
doing or not doing something.
Ultimately, you should do what is in
your and the people you care about's
best interest. And I don't want you to
necessarily feel like, "Oh, because
someone else posted about something, now
you have to." Or because someone else
didn't post about something, you're not
allowed to. I don't think that there's
necessarily a right or a wrong when it
comes to handling these unprecedented
times, these major breaking news, major
world catastrophes on social media. But
with all of that being said, I made a
list of about 12 different things that I
consider that I would recommend that you
consider the next time something crazy
happens in the world and you're
wondering, "What should you do on your
social media? Should you still post
stories? Should you release that
podcast? Should you still post about
your upcoming launch?" Let's talk about
it. First and foremost, I think the best
thing that any of us can do is to pause,
to take a deep breath. Often times, when
something crazy, chaotic happens in the
world, you're instantly made aware of
it. You open up your social media and
every single post is talking about it.
Everyone has their own opinion. Everyone
has their own latest breaking news that
adds onto the story. It can feel
chaotic. It can feel anxiety. It can
cause people to have panic attacks. And
so, one of the best things that you can
do is to pause and often times, that
literally means put the phone down. I
don't believe that we as human beings
are evolved to the point where we are at
the capacity to be able to handle the
inundation of news and headlines that we
see throughout the day. I mean, think
back to just a hundred years ago, your
news for the day was like what your
co-workers or family were telling you,
maybe what you read in a newspaper,
maybe what you listened to on the radio,
but that's about it. You didn't have
this news box in your pocket that was
just pinging you all day long with the
latest catastrophe and world news and
the latest dire situation that's
happening on every single corner of the
globe. And in some ways, that is an
amazing thing because we're able to care
about these things happening all over
the world. We're able to spread
awareness and we're able to help each
other out across a global network, but
it also can be very draining for our
emotional load and our mental state and
even our physical health. So, first and
foremost, what I always try to do and
what I recommend you do is just pause.
Just take a deep breath. Even if that
means if it's possible for you, putting
your phone down and going for like a
10-minute walk or, you know,
disconnecting from social media or the
internet or turning off the news for a
little bit. And also, I want to pause
myself right now and say that this
entire conversation is a very privileged
conversation to be having because we're
thinking about like, "How do we run our
business? What do we post on social
media when something crazy is happening
in the world?" But to the people who the
crazy stuff is happening to, they don't
have the privilege of thinking about,
"Oh, am I going to post on stories
today?" I recognize that. I just also
think that this podcast is dedicated for
business owners, for people who want to
grow and monetize on social media. And
also, I think that breaking news ain't
ever going to slow down anytime soon. I
don't think that we are heading towards
a season of peace and quiet in the
world. I wish we were, but I don't think
we are. And so, I think it's important
that as business owners, as people with
an influence, we talk about ways that we
can move forward and ways that we can
prepare for unprecedented times, which
are becoming kind of the norm. Number
two, educate yourself. And on one hand,
that's very easy to do because you have
the internet at your fingertips, but at
the other hand, that's very challenging
to do because the internet isn't always
the most reliable source of information.
But from what I've found, it's the best
first step after pausing is to try to
educate yourself, to learn about all
sides of the story, to learn the facts,
to read as much as you can, to watch
analysts and to just learn and educate
yourself so you're at the bare minimum
fully aware or close to fully aware of
the full story. Number three, decide on
the relevance of said event to you, your
niche, your business, and your audience.
Let me give you an example. It was
headline news when the United States
Congress pushed through and passed a
bill that was effectively, quote and
quote, banning TikTok. That is relevant
to me and my audience and my niche
because I teach social media. So, that
is a form of breaking news, something
that's a headline that I probably should
talk about or that my audience is
curious about. It's relevant to me and
my audience and my niche. There are
plenty of other things, probably 99% of
what's happening in the news, that isn't
relevant to me or my niche or my
audience. Now, if something is relevant
to you, your niche, or your audience,
then it's probably something that you're
going to want to make a post about,
you're going to want to chime in on, or
at least you're going to want to address
in some way. And I want to say, not to
get too far ahead of ourselves, but
sometimes addressing the thing can mean
not making any other posts or pausing
all of your scheduled posts for at least
a short period of time. We'll talk more
about that later, but number four is, if
you decide that the breaking news, the
thing, whatever, is not relevant to you
or your niche or your industry, like
it's not really pertaining to your
business, but it's still something that
you want to talk about, something you
want to comment on, something you want
to share your beliefs about, something
that you want to amplify or something
that you just want to put your own two
cents in on, ask yourself. And this is a
great question, this came from a friend
of mine. Ask yourself, is this a hill
that I'm willing to die on? Like, is
this something that you're willing to go
to bat for? Is this something that you
believe in so strongly that you're
willing to lose followers or piss people
off or lose business because of? And if
it's not, if it's something that you
don't feel strongly about, then maybe
you hold off on posting about it. Tip
number five is something that I saw
someone say on Threads and I thought,
"Wow, that is so good. Like, I'm
actually doing that myself." And it was
to revisit planned/scheduled posts.
Often times, we are scheduling posts a
week or maybe even a few weeks or maybe
even a few months in advance. And so,
it's important to just revisit anything
you have scheduled. And this includes
all social media, any YouTube videos,
podcasts, even emails that you have
scheduled to be sent out. Revisit them
and just make sure that they all make
sense. Make sure that they are all still
appropriate. I can think of an example,
if, you know, I'm making a a reel about
saying, you know, "Shooter shoot, you
got to shoot your shot and it's
important when you're, you know, if you
want to get a social media brand deal,
you got to pitch yourself and you got to
shoot your shot, you got to put yourself
out there, you got to reach out to the
brands that you want to work with." And
maybe that's the hook I'm using, like,
"Shoot your shot. Shooter shoot." That
would be very insensitive following an
assassination attempt on a former
president, right? And so, it's important
that we all just check our scheduled
content, make sure it's appropriate,
make sure that anything that we're
saying fits into the current narrative,
the current time. Maybe if there is
something major going on and like
everyone is paying attention to one
thing on social media for the day, maybe
you're going to postpone your sales
post. Maybe you're going to postpone
that kind of, you know, on the line kind
of meme that you were planning that's
maybe a little bit it's kind of, you
know, on the border of what you would
normally post and, you know, where your
humor would usually go. Maybe you're
going to delay that to a different time
or a future date. Tip number six is
really just another thing to consider
and that is that you have to understand,
anytime that you post your opinion
online, there will be people who not
only disagree, but probably vocally
disagree and might even come at you.
They might make posts about you. They
might leave nasty comments. They like
they might send you mean direct
messages. That's definitely the worst
case scenario, but it's something that
you need to consider. And so again,
thinking about like, is this a hill I'm
willing to die on? Is this something
that is so important to me that I'm
willing to deal with that backlash and
that negativity and that criticism and
that amount of people who are blocking
me and/or unfollowing me and/or
canceling their business with me. Like,
is this thing that important to me? And
if it is, and if you do plan to make a
post about whatever the thing is, just
know what comes with it, right? Know
what to expect. Know what to get
yourself ready for. And part of getting
yourself ready might mean that you're
not going to engage in the comments.
You're not going to argue with people.
You're not going to answer direct
messages. Maybe you're going to turn off
the comments altogether. Maybe you're
going to turn off your direct messages
altogether. Maybe you are going to mute
your phone after making said post and
you're going to walk away from social
media for a day or two. Prepare in
advance different ways so that you can
just be ready for, you know, the
impending negativity or pushback that
you might receive. Tip number seven is a
specific one, but it is to use content
warnings. So, if you are making a post
that involves violence or it involves
blood or it's about, you know, an eating
disorder or it's about whatever thing,
whatever sort of trauma, give some sort
of content warning. Just so that people
are aware of what they're about to see.
You don't want to accidentally upset
someone or trigger someone or show a
child something that they weren't ready
for or show someone something that is
very upsetting to them. Maybe they are
a, you know, a military veteran and
they've come home from war and so when
they see blood it triggers PTSD for
them. And so you just want to give a
warning that, "Hey, this is the kind of
content I'm about to post about if the
kind of content you're about to post
about has something traumatic or graphic
in it." Content warnings can make a big
difference. Tip number eight is
something that is extremely important
and that is that I am against
capitalizing on tragedy for your own
social media personal gain. I saw a lot
of people and I don't shame anyone who
does this, but I saw quite a few people
over this past weekend who were
immediately posting memes and making
jokes about things that had happened.
And regardless of how you feel,
regardless of where you stand
politically, when people die, I don't
believe that that is the opportunity for
you to make a quick meme to get some
more views on Instagram. That in my
opinion is in bad taste. I'm not trying
to shame them. I'm not trying to, you
know, say that any of those people are
bad people. That's not something that I
would do and that's not something that I
would recommend that you do. If you're
listening to this podcast week after
week and you're someone who takes our
advice and you call yourself a Build
Your Tribe listener, then I hope that
the influence I can have on you is that
you're not going to try to take
advantage of national catastrophic
worldwide headlines for your own social
media gain. Tip number nine is to engage
in meaningful conversations. And I say
that with a big asterisks because I
recognize that the vast majority of
conversations happening on social media
at the time that there is a major
traumatic world news headline event are
not productive conversations. They're
arguments where both sides walk away
pissed off and offended and upset and
neither side has necessarily gained or
learned anything. So, I hope that we can
all be an agent of change, myself
included, and when something crazy
happens, instead of jumping into comment
sections to debate and argue and get
upset with other people for disagreeing,
we can instead have either private
conversations or peaceful public
conversations that lead to knowledge and
growth and learning. Tip number 10 is
that if you are going to post, you
should probably consider offering some
sort of support or resources, some ways
that people can do their own education
and they can like learn for themselves
or ways that people can donate or ways
that people can help support. Offering
resources like that can be very helpful
so that you aren't positioning yourself
as the only person to go to. You are
just another person facilitating other
people to hopefully also grow and learn
and educate and maybe even donate or
support. Tip number 11 is to find your
own unique balance. And again, all of
this is subjective. All of this is open
to your own personal opinions and
interpretation, but find a balance that
works for you. I think that it's silly
to shut down all social media depending
on what the news is. Like if the world
is ending, you know, maybe it doesn't
matter to post a reel. But depending on
what the news is, it probably doesn't
make sense to just shut down all social
media for the next 6 months. But it
maybe also doesn't make sense to go 6
months without addressing that news. So,
find the balance that works for you.
Find the middle ground that can work to
both keep your audience happy, keep your
business afloat, but also maintain your
own integrity in being able to talk
about the things that truly matter to
you. 12th, definitely last but not
least, is communicate internally. I hear
from a lot of content creators and
business owners that often times they
forget to communicate with their teams
during this time. The people who you are
paying, the people you're working with,
your independent contractors, your staff
members, your copywriters, your content
designers, your editors, it's important
to check in with these people, to
communicate with them, to make sure that
you're all on the same page, that you
are a united front, and then if you are
making changes as the business owner,
that you're communicating it with them
and that they are aware of what's going
on. Ultimately, to put a bow on this
somewhat ugly package, I want to just
conclude by reiterating that there is no
right and wrong. And everything I've
shared today is my opinion. I'm sure it
will change and I'm sure some people
listening disagree with some things that
I said today and I'm sure you'll let me
know in the comments on YouTube, but I
recognize that there isn't necessarily a
perfect solution. There isn't a solution
where everyone is going to be happy. And
I think that's something that you need
to recognize as well is that no matter
what the event is, no matter what niche
you're in, no matter how many followers
you have, there is unlikely to be a
solution that is perfect for everyone,
that works for everyone and makes
everyone happy. So, I want to just say,
thank you so much for listening today
and I would love to hear from you in the
comment section on YouTube. Hopefully,
even if you do disagree, you can leave
some sort of constructive comment, one
where we can all have like a healthy
dialogue and just learn from each other
and hear everyone else's opinion in the
comments because this is a sticky
situation and this is something that a
lot of people are scared to talk about
and admittedly this is something that I
have been scared to talk about for many
months on this podcast because I get
messages all the time. Whenever the next
chaotic world news happens, whenever the
next traumatic thing breaks and people
come asking like how they should handle
it or if I can do a podcast talking
about how I'm going to handle it and
it's something that I've been I've been
kind of nervous to talk about because I
know it's something that is going to
make some people angry and it's going to
probably lose some subscribers of this
podcast. So, I'd love to hear from you
in the comment section on YouTube to
just kind of check in and see how
everyone else is feeling, how you as a
listener feel about today's episode and
how you, maybe even this would be a good
prompt of something you could lead your
comment off with, is to comment how you
handle breaking news and world events.
Thank you so much for listening today
and as always, happy networking.
[Music]